# Emumba Plugin Documentation

Welcome to the documentation for the Emumba Plugin project. This project aims to streamline the creation of React applications by providing a CLI tool that sets up a boilerplate project with selected options.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation & Setup](#installation--setup)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Understanding the File Structure of Plugin](#understanding-the-file-structure-of-plugin)

## Introduction

The Emumba Plugin is a CLI tool designed to simplify the process of creating new React applications by providing a set of prompts to customize the project setup. It allows developers to choose various configurations such as UI libraries, data fetching libraries, state management, and more.

## Installation & Setup

1. Clone the Emumba Plugin repository from GitHub:

   ```bash
   https://gitlab.com/usama-mujeeb/emumba-plugin.git
   cd emumba-plugin
   ```

2. Install project dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Set up a local registry for testing. In one terminal, run:

   ```bash
   npx nx local-registry
   ```

4. In a second terminal, publish the package locally (e.g., version 1.0.0):
   ```bash
   npx nx run-many -t publish --ver 1.0.0 --tag latest
   ```

## Usage

To create a new React project using the Emumba Plugin, follow these simple steps:

1. Open your terminal.

2. Run the following command:

```bash
 npx emumba-project-setup@latest my-app
```

3. Follow the on-screen prompts to configure your project. You can select options for UI libraries, data fetching libraries, state management, React Router, Storybook, and more.

4. The Emumba Plugin will create the project with your chosen configurations.

5. You can start your project by navigating to the project directory and using `npm start`.

## Configuration

The Emumba Plugin allows you to configure various aspects of your project, including:

- **UI Library:** Choose between Material UI, Ant Design, or None.

- **Data Fetching Library:** Choose between React Query, SWR, or None.

- **React Router:** Configure whether or not to include React Router for handling navigation.

- **State Management Library:** Choose between Redux, Jotai, or None.

- **Storybook:** Configure whether or not to include Storybook for component development.

You can customize these options during project setup, and the Emumba Plugin will generate a project that adheres to your choices.

## Understanding the File Structure of Plugin

After clonning the repository you'll see the project structure like below:

```
emumba-plugin/
├── packages/
│   ├── emumba-plugin/
│   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   ├── generators/
│   │   │   │   ├── preset/
│   │   │   │   │   ├── generator.spec.ts
│   │   │   │   │   ├── generator.ts
│   │   │   │   │   ├── schema.d.ts
│   │   │   │   │   ├── schema.json
│   │   │   │   │   ├── files/
│   │   │   │   │   │   ├── public/
│   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── index.html.template
│   │   │   │   │   │   ├── src/
│   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── index.tsx.template
│   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── index.css.template
│   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── App.tsx.template
│   │   │   │   │   │   │   ├── App.css.template
│   │   │   │   │   ├── meta_data/
│   │   │   │   │   │   ├── ui_library_components
│   │   │   │   │   │   ├── router_components
│   │   │   │   │   │   ├── jotai_components
│   │   │   │   │   │   ├── redux_components
│   │   │   │   │   │   ├── storybook_components
├── emumba-project-setup/
│   ├── bin/
│   │   ├── index.ts
├── nx.json
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.base.json
```

**Here is a description of each file:**

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/generator.spec.ts`: This file contains the unit tests for the preset generator.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/generator.ts`: This file contains the logic for the preset generator. It performs manipulations on a tree that represents the file system.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/schema.d.ts`: This file provides TypeScript typings for the schema used in the preset generator.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/schema.json`: This file provides a description of the preset generator, including available options, validation information, and default values.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/files/public/index.html.template`: This file is a template for the index.html file that will be generated by the preset generator. It contains the basic structure of an HTML file for a React application, including the necessary script tags.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/files/src/index.tsx.template`: This file is a template for the index.tsx file that will be generated by the preset generator. It serves as the entry point for your React application and typically renders the root component.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/files/src/index.css.template`: This file is a template for the index.css file that will be generated by the preset generator. It can be used to define global styles for your React application.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/files/src/App.tsx.template`: This file is a template for the App.tsx file that will be generated by the preset generator. It represents the main component of your React application and can be customized to define the structure and behavior of your app.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/files/src/App.css.template`: This file is a template for the App.css file that will be generated by the preset generator. It can be used to define styles specific to the App.tsx component.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/meta_data/ui_library_components`: This folder contains metadata related to UI library components used by the preset generator.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/meta_data/router_components`: This folder contains metadata related to router components used by the preset generator.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/meta_data/jotai_components`: This folder contains metadata related to Jotai components used by the preset generator.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/meta_data/redux_components`: This folder contains metadata related to Redux components used by the preset generator.

- `emumba-plugin/packages/emumba-plugin/src/generators/preset/meta_data/storybook_components`: This folder contains metadata related to Storybook components used by the preset generator.

- `emumba-plugin/emumba-project-setup/bin/index.ts`: This file contains the logic for handling user prompts using the enquirer npm package. It is the entry point for your custom CLI plugin.

- `emumba-plugin/nx.json`: This file contains the configuration for the Nx workspace, including project definitions and dependencies.

- `emumba-plugin/tsconfig.base.json`: This file contains the base TypeScript configuration for your Nx workspace.
